rom W=9

(Rev. March 2024)

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

Request for Taxpayer
Identification Number and Certification

Go to www.irs.gov/FormW9 for instructions and the latest information.

Give form to the
requester. Do not
send to the IRS.

Before you begin. For guidance related to the purpose of Form W-9, see Purpose of Form, below.

entity's name on line 2.)

1 Name of entity/individual. An entry is required. (For a sole proprietor or disregarded entity, enter the owner's name on line 1, and enter the business/disregarded

2 Business name/disregarded entity name, if different from above.

3a Check the appropriate box for federal tax classification of the entity/individual whose name is entered on line 1. Check
only one of the following seven boxes.

(J Individua/sole proprietor © [[] Ccorporation [_] Scorporation [_] Partnership  [_] Trust/estate

(1 LLC. Enter the tax classification (C = C corporation, S = S corporation, P = Partnership)

classification of the LLC, unless it is a disregarded entity. A disregarded entity should instead check the appropriate
box for the tax classification of its owner.

1 Other (see instructions)

Note: Check the “LLC” box above and, in the entry space, enter the appropriate code (C, S, or P) for the tax

4 Exemptions (codes apply only to
certain entities, not individuals;
see instructions on page 3):

Exempt payee code (if any)

Exemption from Foreign Account Tax
Compliance Act (FATCA) reporting
code (if any)

Print or type.

3b If on line 3a you checked “Partnership” or “Trust/estate,” or checked “LLC” and entered “P” as its tax classification,
and you are providing this form to a partnership, trust, or estate in which you have an ownership interest, check
this box if you have any foreign partners, owners, or beneficiaries. See instructions .

Applies to accounts maintained
outside the United States.)

See Specific Instructions on page 3.

5 Address (number, street, and apt. or suite no.). See instructions.

6 City, state, and ZIP code

Requester’s name and address (optional)

7 List account number(s) here (optional)

Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)

Enter your TIN in the appropriate box. The TIN provided must match the name given on line 1 to avoid

[Social security number

backup withholding. For individuals, this is generally your social security number (SSN). However, for a
resident alien, sole proprietor, or disregarded entity, see the instructions for Part |, later. For other

entities, it is your employer identification number (EIN). If you do not have a number, see How togeta Sr

TIN, later.

[Employer identification number

Note: If the account is in more than one name, see the instructions for line 1. See also What Name and
Number To Give the Requester for guidelines on whose number to enter.

Part Certification

Under penalties of perjury, | certify that:

1. The number shown on this form is my correct taxpayer identification number (or | am waiting for a number to be issued to me); and
2. Lam not subject to backup withholding because (a) | am exempt from backup withholding, or (b) | have not been notified by the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) that | am subject to backup withholding as a result of a failure to report all interest or dividends, or (c) the IRS has notified me that | am

no longer subject to backup withholding; and
3. lam a USS. citizen or other U.S. person (defined below); and
4. The FATCA code(s) entered on this form (if any) indicating that | am exempt from FATCA reporting is correct.

Certification instructions. You must cross out item 2 above if you have been notified by the IRS that you are currently subject to backup withholding
because you have failed to report all interest and dividends on your tax return. For real estate transactions, item 2 does not apply. For mortgage interest paid,
acquisition or abandonment of secured property, cancellation of debt, contributions to an individual retirement arrangement (IRA), and, generally, payments
other than interest and dividends, you are not required to sign the certification, but you must provide your correct TIN. See the instructions for Part Il, later.

Sign

Signature of
Here

U.S. person Date

General Instructions

New line 3b has been added to this form. A flow-through entity is

Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code unless otherwise
noted.

Future developments. For the latest information about developments
related to Form W-9 and its instructions, such as legislation enacted
after they were published, go to www.irs.gov/FormW9.

What’s New

Line 3a has been modified to clarify how a disregarded entity completes
this line. An LLC that is a disregarded entity should check the
appropriate box for the tax classification of its owner. Otherwise, it
should check the “LLC” box and enter its appropriate tax classification.

required to complete this line to indicate that it has direct or indirect
foreign partners, owners, or beneficiaries when it provides the Form W-9
to another flow-through entity in which it has an ownership interest. This
change is intended to provide a flow-through entity with information
regarding the status of its indirect foreign partners, owners, or
beneficiaries, so that it can satisfy any applicable reporting
requirements. For example, a partnership that has any indirect foreign
partners may be required to complete Schedules K-2 and K-3. See the
Partnership Instructions for Schedules K-2 and K-3 (Form 1065).

Purpose of Form

An individual or entity (Form W-9 requester) who is required to file an
information return with the IRS is giving you this form because they

Cat. No. 10231X

Form W-9 (Rev. 3-2024)
Form W-9 (Rev. 3-2024)

Page 2

must obtain your correct taxpayer identification number (TIN), which
may be your social security number (SSN), individual taxpayer
identification number (ITIN), adoption taxpayer identification number
(ATIN), or employer identification number (EIN), to report on an
information return the amount paid to you, or other amount reportable
on an information return. Examples of information returns include, but
are not limited to, the following.
* Form 1099-INT (interest earned or paid).
* Form 1099-DIV (dividends, including those from stocks or mutual
funds).
* Form 1099-MISC (various types of income, prizes, awards, or gross
proceeds).
* Form 1099-NEC (nonemployee compensation).
* Form 1099-B (stock or mutual fund sales and certain other
transactions by brokers).
+ Form 1099-S (proceeds from real estate transactions).
* Form 1099-K (merchant card and third-party network transactions).
* Form 1098 (home mortgage interest), 1098-E (student loan interest),
and 1098-T (tuition).
* Form 1099-C (canceled debt).
* Form 1099-A (acquisition or abandonment of secured property).

Use Form W-9 only if you are a U.S. person (including a resident
alien), to provide your correct TIN.
Caution: If you don’t return Form W-9 to the requester with a TIN, you
might be subject to backup withholding. See What is backup
withholding, later.

By signing the filled-out form, you:

1. Certify that the TIN you are giving is correct (or you are waiting for a
number to be issued);

2. Certify that you are not subject to backup withholding; or

3. Claim exemption from backup withholding if you are a U.S. exempt
payee; and

4. Certify to your non-foreign status for purposes of withholding under
chapter 3 or 4 of the Code (if applicable); and

5. Certify that FATCA code(s) entered on this form (if any) indicating
that you are exempt from the FATCA reporting is correct. See What Is
FATCA Reporting, later, for further information.
Note: If you are a U.S. person and a requester gives you a form other
than Form W-9 to request your TIN, you must use the requester’s form if
it is substantially similar to this Form W-9.
Definition of a U.S. person. For federal tax purposes, you are
considered a U.S. person if you are:
* An individual who is a U.S. citizen or U.S. resident alien;
* A partnership, corporation, company, or association created or
organized in the United States or under the laws of the United States;
* An estate (other than a foreign estate); or
* A domestic trust (as defined in Regulations section 301.7701-7).
Establishing U.S. status for purposes of chapter 3 and chapter 4
withholding. Payments made to foreign persons, including certain
distributions, allocations of income, or transfers of sales proceeds, may
be subject to withholding under chapter 3 or chapter 4 of the Code
(sections 1441-1474). Under those rules, if a Form W-9 or other
Certification of non-foreign status has not been received, a withholding
agent, transferee, or partnership (payor) generally applies presumption
rules that may require the payor to withhold applicable tax from the
recipient, owner, transferor, or partner (payee). See Pub. 515,
Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign Entities.

The following persons must provide Form W-9 to the payor for
purposes of establishing its non-foreign status.
* In the case of a disregarded entity with a U.S. owner, the U.S. owner
of the disregarded entity and not the disregarded entity.
* In the case of a grantor trust with a U.S. grantor or other U.S. owner,
generally, the U.S. grantor or other U.S. owner of the grantor trust and
not the grantor trust.
* In the case of a U.S. trust (other than a grantor trust), the U.S. trust
and not the beneficiaries of the trust.
See Pub. 515 for more information on providing a Form W-9 or a
certification of non-foreign status to avoid withholding.

Foreign person. If you are a foreign person or the U.S. branch of a
foreign bank that has elected to be treated as a U.S. person (under
Regulations section 1.1441-1(b)(2)(iv) or other applicable section for
chapter 3 or 4 purposes), do not use Form W-9. Instead, use the
appropriate Form W-8 or Form 8233 (see Pub. 515). If you are a
qualified foreign pension fund under Regulations section 1.897()-1(d), or
a partnership that is wholly owned by qualified foreign pension funds,
that is treated as a non-foreign person for purposes of section 1445
withholding, do not use Form W-2. Instead, use Form W-8EXP (or other
certification of non-foreign status).

Nonresident alien who becomes a resident alien. Generally, only a
nonresident alien individual may use the terms of a tax treaty to reduce
or eliminate U.S. tax on certain types of income. However, most tax
treaties contain a provision known as a saving clause. Exceptions
specified in the saving clause may permit an exemption from tax to
continue for certain types of income even after the payee has otherwise
become a U.S. resident alien for tax purposes.

If you are a U.S. resident alien who is relying on an exception
contained in the saving clause of a tax treaty to claim an exemption
from U.S. tax on certain types of income, you must attach a statement
to Form W-9 that specifies the following five items.

1. The treaty country. Generally, this must be the same treaty under
which you claimed exemption from tax as a nonresident alien.

2. The treaty article addressing the income.
3. The article number (or location) in the tax treaty that contains the
saving clause and its exceptions.

4. The type and amount of income that qualifies for the exemption
from tax.

5. Sufficient facts to justify the exemption from tax under the terms of
the treaty article.

Example. Article 20 of the U.S.-China income tax treaty allows an
exemption from tax for scholarship income received by a Chinese
student temporarily present in the United States. Under U.S. law, this
student will become a resident alien for tax purposes if their stay in the
United States exceeds 5 calendar years. However, paragraph 2 of the
first Protocol to the U.S.-China treaty (dated April 30, 1984) allows the
provisions of Article 20 to continue to apply even after the Chinese
student becomes a resident alien of the United States. A Chinese
student who qualifies for this exception (under paragraph 2 of the first
Protocol) and is relying on this exception to claim an exemption from tax
on their scholarship or fellowship income would attach to Form W-9 a
statement that includes the information described above to support that
exemption.

If you are a nonresident alien or a foreign entity, give the requester the
appropriate completed Form W-8 or Form 8233.

Backup Withholding

What is backup withholding? Persons making certain payments to you
must under certain conditions withhold and pay to the IRS 24% of such
payments. This is called “backup withholding.” Payments that may be
subject to backup withholding include, but are not limited to, interest,
tax-exempt interest, dividends, broker and barter exchange
transactions, rents, royalties, nonemployee pay, payments made in
settlement of payment card and third-party network transactions, and
certain payments from fishing boat operators. Real estate transactions
are not subject to backup withholding.

You will not be subject to backup withholding on payments you receive
if you give the requester your correct TIN, make the proper certifications,
and report all your taxable interest and dividends on your tax return.
Payments you receive will be subject to backup withholding if:

1. You do not furnish your TIN to the requester;

2. You do not certify your TIN when required (see the instructions for
Part II for details);

3. The IRS tells the requester that you furnished an incorrect TIN;

4. The IRS tells you that you are subject to backup withholding
because you did not report all your interest and dividends on your tax
return (for reportable interest and dividends only); or

5. You do not certify to the requester that you are not subject to
backup withholding, as described in item 4 under “By signing the filled-
out form” above (for reportable interest and dividend accounts opened
after 1983 only).
